---
template: BlogPost
path: /201015-2353
date: 2020-10-16T03:52:52.770Z
title: GConf
---
I'm still trying to figure out how exactly gconf works.  I've know how to use it with our system, tagging our subsystem with deliverables, but I don't actually really understand what goes on in the background.  I guess that's the beauty of it, you don't really need to know.  Still, I'd like to.

I'm trying to find reading material on gconf and so far I've been able to understand that it's some sort of system registry that watches for changes in a database storing configurations, then applies those changes to the applications using them.  That much I can grasp but I'm failing to understand how exactly how that applies to our systems.  We build our project, which gives a SHA, then I guess it searches for identical branch names in the subsystem and grabs the latest build, or the master at that point if no matching branch has been found.  From there it creates a deliverable, which is again a SHA that is probably just a config of the snapshot of project SHAs.  From there, we tag the subsystem with the deliverable, which is hooked up to openshift and kubernetes and applies those SHAs to corresponding service pods, but only if it currently has a different image.

I was thinking that maybe only the first part uses GConf and the second is Docker, but i distinctly remember there being no more access on openshift to directly tag services because it was taken off when we all started using gconf.  At the same time though, we can still tag service if you dig a little deeper in the config files, which would point to gconf. I really should find the documentation we have for this; it's probably one of those goot to knows.